>> Will Sentance: All right.
Now let's do our all important check.
Let's do our all important check.
Here it is our vital check.
Can we call our functionality on our
object that has the data of the user?
User 1 here could be user 2.
Can we do it?
Because the function definitely
don't look like it's on user 1.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, that's your life then.
>> Will Sentance: We got the pink line
the pink line makes it possible Seth.
Tell me the journey.
Tell me the lookup journey of
JavaScript where is user 1.
>> Speaker 2: User 1 is in globals.
>> Will Sentance: Global memory,
global memory, there it is, hooray.
What are we looking for on it?
>> Speaker 2: Increment.
>> Will Sentance: Increment,
do we have it?
>> Speaker 2: We're gonna
find it by reference.
>> Will Sentance: But
do we have it on as a property direct?
No, so JavaScript goes and
looks up the pink line to?
>> Speaker 2: The user functions store.
>> Will Sentance: User
functions store where it finds?
>> Speaker 2: Increment.
>> Will Sentance: Beautiful.
Okay, folk, let's talk about how that
bond is made because it really would
be the worse session on front end masters
ever if we just left it as the pink line.
The pink line leads up.
So how actually is made is this people.
As soon as you declare new user and
as soon as it returns on an object using
object.create, it sets a hidden property.
I will stand by what I said.
It is an empty object that
gets stored in new user.
But you will see an empty object stored
in new user and then you add the name,
score, property, return.
There is no increment property on here.
And if only these two properties that are
locked in but, there are hidden properties
and objects that give them bonus features,
and you can see them.
As soon as you declare a new user and
you assign it that empty object,
you press that little down arrow.
In the Chrome dev tools, you see
a bunch of kinda light gray properties.
One of them-
>> Will Sentance: Is dunderscore,
double underscore,
proto double underscore.
Now in the spec actually of JavaScript.
That means the underlying design of
JavaScript, the run time writing of Java,
they call it square bracket,
square bracket,
prototype, square bracket, square bracket.
Which is even more badly named
as we'll see later one when there is
actually a property called prototype.
So this is a terrible name, proto.
The spec name was even worse named.
So,anyway, whatever.
This is a hidden property,
the pink stuff is a hidden properties,
and under score proto, dunder score
will have a little link to where, Seth?
>> Speaker 3: The the user
function storage.
>> Will Sentance: To user function storage
and what we passed into object.create that
gave us the empty object with
the hidden reference up.
And note people, yes,
it says user function store.
Do not think that means we're copying
user function store onto here.
We're just saying, make a link up to it.
Make a reference to where this
object is stored in memory.
Such that when we return out this object,
it brings with it its little hidden bond.
Up to,
through the dunderscore proto dunderscore
it's bond up to user function score.
Same thing on this object.
>> Will Sentance: It's dunderscore
proto dunderscore bond up.
So who would like to talk through
the lookup process here now,
in terms of our proto reference.
David, I knew from the look in your eyes
that you wanted to user 1, where is it?
>> Speaker 4: In the global skull.
>> Will Sentance: In,
let's call it global memory,
the reason is, scoping in JavaScript
has a slightly more complex
aspect with it's static scoping,
I see hard parts.
So I prefer to use the term,
how many times am I allowed to
pitch other hard parts videos?
>> Speaker 5: As many as you like.
>> Will Sentance: As many as I like.
See, hard parts closure.
So I prefer to use memory,
where we're storing.
And we'll find user 1.
Beautiful.
And then David,
what are we looking for in user 1?
What does JavaScript look for in user 1?
>> Speaker 6: Increments.
>> Will Sentance: Does it find it?
It does not.
Does it panic?
Does it error at this point?
>> Speaker 6: In IE, yes.
>> Will Sentance: Does it?
I don't know, maybe.
Perhaps.
That would be pretty
tragic if that were true.
Fundamental feature of JavaScript.
Instead, it uses JavaScript.
And I want to call it this,
it's prototypal nature.
It's prototypal feature.
It is a feature of JavaScript that means
when JavaScript does not find the method
on the object directly,
it does not immediately give up.
Instead it goes and
looks on what hidden property, David?
>> Speaker 7: Proto.
>> Will Sentance: The proto property.
Not prototype, we'll see that later
on a totally different thing.
The proto property.
The dunder proto dunder.
The dunderscore proto dunderscore.
The double underscore
proto double underscore.
And it sees there
a little link up to what?
>> Speaker 7: User, user incriment store.
>> Will Sentance: User function store,
where we find what?
>> Speaker 7: Incriment.
>> Will Sentance: The incriment function.
We can then grab its code,
create an execution context to execute it.
I mean, we're gonna see a ton of
complexity laid on top of this.
But this is fundamentally a good solution.
This hidden feature of JavaScript
known as its prototypal nature,
that means we cannot give up when we don't
find something on an object directly, but
instead go looking elsewhere,
turns out to be profoundly useful.
And whereas other hard parts have lots of
new concepts, we're gonna see that really
in OOP, hard parts, this is it,
this is the underlying feature.
This is JavaScript's Prototypal nature.
Now, it's gonna turn out, it gets super
complicated as we link more objects
to more objects, as we want to save
ourselves manually making this bond and
instead use some keywords that
automate the making of that bond.
And then we got it to
the clean up that code and
it gets pretty complicated around
the new or the class keywords.
But fundamentally under the hood
it's kind of underwhelming almost.
This is it.
We're gonna see nothing else a day.
Everything else we face today is gonna be
JavaScript trying to clean up this process
and in doing so create more need for
understanding, if that makes sense.
So that it looks cleaner, but
to actually use it effectively?
We're gonna need to, they're gonna
add little bonus bits here and
there which make it more complicated,
more and more complicated.
It will look cleaner and cleaner,
but under the hood, it's more and
more complicated.
We're getting on that full journey Today.
All right, so
we have successfully found our function
even though it is not on our object.
Lets have thumbs at this point.
No idea what happened here.
I am clear.
I have clarifications.
Everybody's thumbs out.
It's absolutely okay to
have clarifications.
Terry, is that a clarification?
Or a weak thumb?
>> Speaker 7: Weak thumb.
>> Will Sentance: Okay, all right,
problems with this one.
There are no problems.
This is beautiful.
Maybe it's a little bit long winded folk.
Once you start thinking
about your application as
objects that combine the relevant data.
Name score of a user with
the relevant functionality,
the increment module function.
In reality, there's a lot of those.
You start doing that for everything.
Even if, for example, you had one, these
instances I don't love that name is not
really in the classic sense of instance.
Even if you have one object requires
of example or one of a thing.
So suppose you have in your app.
You have one app, right?
One quiz game board.
Even if you just doing that
you're probably still going to
make it as an object to capture the data
over the dimensions of the board
the color of the board, whatever.
Some details of it, and
the associated functionality.
Maybe render the board.
You're still gonna capture
that as an object, and
therefore create a function that will
return that object out with the data,
and then the functionality off
in some shared function store.
Even though you're only
gonna have one of them.
Not like users where you may have 40
players at the same time, 1,000 players at
the same time, you just may only have
one of them but you're still going to
produce that object with it's data ar
functionality together from a function.
So I guess this process of hand crafting
an object,
hand returning it out from a function,
hand making the bond to
a set of shared functions.
I guess that becomes
a little bit repetitive.
If you saw a thing about everything
you do is objects with right data and
functionality bundled together.
With the right data and
the right functionality bonded together.
And you're gonna produce
them from functions,
you're making a lot of objects by hand.
You're making a lot, you're writing the
creation of the object with a local label,
newUser in this case.
The returning of that object out,
the bond to the shared functions.
You're doing that by hand,
you're writing out a lot.
Other languages say, ah-ah, no need.
Other languages say, do not fear, we're
gonna give you functions that just make
you objects that you can
then add properties to.
JavaScript doesn't, well it does now,
didn't use to give us that.
Instead it gave us a keyword
that did that for us.
Very strange design decision,
but it is what it is.
So there's no fundamental
problems with this approach.
I feel like I've read some people
saying this is kind of like
the sophisticated approach.
And in reality, this is what we're
gonna discover one of those key words
in JavaScript, a new key word,
actually is doing under the hood.
But I guess maybe it's
a little long winded.
You create an object every single time,
you hand craft it, a bond to some
functions every single time, and
you return that object every time.
But it's super sophisticated.
But JavaScript's designers said, okay,
we're gonna give you a tool that
will automate these pieces.
The making of the object, the crafting
of the bond to the shared functions, and
the returning of the object data.
We're gonna give you a three letter word
that will automate that process for you.
That three letter word is,
everyone together New.
>> Speaker 8: New, that wasn't
everybody together, but nevertheless.